So it has an Add New Item button that is
disabled when the input is empty, right?
Cool, so things that I'm thinking
as I look at this test is maybe I
would want to make sure that
the input field is empty.
But then the other thing I'm thinking is I
would wait for this test to break once or
twice before I worried about all that.
You know what I mean?
But if it was one of those things,
where for some reason,
my test isolation was not good or
in certain cases, right?
If I was let's say, as an edit blog post,
it might not always be empty, right?
In those cases, I would maybe add
some nuance, or set it to empty, or
something along those lines.
So but at this moment,
that feels like a little over the top.
So a pass and we'll render the packing
list and if one wanted to,
they could do it before each and
keep an enclosure scope.
I don't want to, like I said, in case I
do wanna start passing it in props or
something like that,
maybe start to populate, again,
if it was an edit blog post or
something like that,
I would then have to unwind all
of that and put it back in.
And honestly,
this one line isn't bothering me enough
to prematurely optimize that cuz, yeah,
the cost of getting that wrong is higher
than the good parts of getting it right.
And like I said, yeah,
definitely have great abstractions for
your code, but
your tests should aim to be just as
explicit as possible even
if they repeat themselves.
Cool, so, let's see.
I'll test both.
Let's say we've got this new item input,
Which is basically what we had up here.
So I'll just grab that real quick.
And we've got that in place, and
then we're also gonna wanna
have the Add New Item button.
Add New Item button with an N.
And they will do that it's
kind of screen.getByRole,
and this one will be a button,
With the name.
And we're gonna learn something together.
Well, I already learned it as I was
getting ready for this, which is,
It does ignore the emoji.
>> No way.
>> Yeah,
the Add New Item will work in this case.
We'll verify that before we're
all really proud of that one.
Yeah, it gets that.
It will ignore the emoji.
I think that's how the browser
does the names and
the roles rather than anything else.
You'd be like, Steve,
why didn't you know that?
Because no one allows me to put emojis and
buttons at work.
[LAUGH] It's only on my sample apps that
I can shove emojis wherever I want to on
buttons on anywhere, cuz one, I'm not
a designer who can make my own icons.
And two, I like emoji, but
it's not a thing that I realized until I
got to make my own little silly apps
because Candace would be very mad
at me if I started shoving emoji all
over the UI without checking with her.
Cool, so we've got that in place.
But yeah,
we all learned something together.
And I can either expect
that the input is empty or
I could purposely set it to empty.
Like I said before, I don't really
have strong feelings on this.
So [LAUGH] with the lack
of strong feelings,
I am gonna do what's in
the solution file just for
the sake of our viewers here so
that they don't offer too much here.
To have value of an empty string and
then I can expect in that case
that the Add New Item Button,
To be disabled, right?
And like we said before,
these are all the helpers
that were brought in by
the testing library/Jest
DOM Matchers that we can kind of pull in,
Mark.
>> I came across a team where
one person writes a test and
another person makes the test pass.
>> Yeah, that's like-
>> What's your opinion of that?
So the, I forget what it's called,
but what you're supposed to
do in that situation is one
person writes the test and
then the other person is supposed
to do the most egregious or
naive, or silliest implementation
that makes the test pass so
that the person writing the test
has to do an even better test.
Right, and so I liked that idea.
It's one of those things which is,
I think it's fun,
I wonder if their teams
would do that every day.
Do you know what I mean?
It's a fun game, I'm into it and
I think there's value in doing it.
But I don't know, maybe in companies
where everyone programs all the time.
As an introvert that's, I don't know, but
I think on a very practical level,
I think it's genius, right?
I think my social battery, I have about
90 minutes of that in me a day at most.
But yeah, I think it's super cool.
And it will get you to that as
you kinda make a game out of it,
it will get you to those better tests.
But you can also, I feel like
the Galaxy Brain version of that
is to be able to do that with yourself.
That said, most of us are just trying
to get our jobs done here, [LAUGH] and
probably don't have the discipline to
write a test and then write the most
ridiculous implementation of that
despite ourselves but it's a thing.
So we've got both of these in place.
Let's go make sure that passes as well.
And so we're starting to get to the point
where it's, I have to be defined.
So we want to be disabled.
So, yeah, who tests the tests?
>> getAllByLabelText
versus getByLabelText.
What was the difference again?
>> getAll will get you an array.
>> So that would fail unless you
wrapped new item name in an array,
would that make it pass if you had
to getAllByLabelText on 20 there?
>> 20, get by label text, right?
>> Yeah, I actually had getAllByLabelText.
>> I mean, you'll still have them.
>> And it failed.
>> Yeah, cuz it won't have a value,
it'll be an array.
>> All right, [CROSSTALK]
>> You might have a two length or
something like that.
To getAll is like if you had some way
to identify them depending on how
you got them.
It's super interesting.
Let's say if we added three
things to the list, right,
you would maybe wanna get all and
check the length, right?
There's a time and a place for it.
This just isn't it.
And that's a good call-out cuz, at one
point, I just haven't done this enough in
my life,
I will probably make that mistake today.
I'll probably be talking and I'll hit
that tab, it autocompletes something and
you'll I'll pretend like I
did it to you on purpose.
I won't have but, yeah, all right.
So then enables the Add New button
when there's text in the input field.
So like we said before you can create
some functions to kind of render it and
go get all these things and give me
a object that I can destructure and
grab what I need out of.
I will kind of leave that
as an exercise reader.
We did a little bit yesterday.
I don't think anyone used to watch
me do it again, but for now,
a little bit of copy and
paste also works in this case as well.
So here, we'll get both of them.
I don't need to expect
that they exist anymore.
But what I probably want to do
is at least go in there and
we have that, remember user event?
So I can simulate the idea of typing.
Could I fire a change
event at that input field?
I absolutely could.
But again, to that even that point we
made a little bit earlier, there is
a certain amount of value in doing it from
the user perspective and also considering
it is the difference of just using
a different method that I already have.
I get a lot of value of
not really any work.
So we will go ahead and try that one out.
And so what I will probably do
in this case is I will, and,
again, remember the big difference between
fire event and the user event library.
Is that the user event library because
it's doing a series of different actions,
instead of one event that's getting
fired does, in fact, return a promise.
So you will find that
nothing works the way you
expect if you do not
await the user typing.
So we'll go to the newItem input and
we will type in MacBook Pro.
Cool, and then, at that point,
we should be able to expect
the NewItem button or a NewItem,
yeah, our addItem button,
To be enabled.
And then we'll go ahead and
we'll run that test.
And I got it.
There we go, we got a little check mark.
And it's kinda like on a dopamine level,
very rewarding to kinda work down this
list to get the checkboxes going.